Hello everyone and welcome to lecture on box blocks in this lecture room to learn how to use our G.G.
plot to in order to GraphicLy the picked a box plot.
Let's go out and jump to our studio and see how it all works.
OK so here we are in our studio.
We're going to go ahead and start my script by saying library of G-G plot two.
And then I will assign the empty cars data set to a variable d f.
Let's go ahead and check the head of empty cars.
We can get a reminder what it looks like but hopefully you've worked that enough by now that you kind
of have a sense and idea that it's just a bunch of cars and some data about those cars.
So let's go ahead and use G-G plot to create a box plot of the information here.
So the box plot essentially just a convenient way of graphically depicting groups of numerical data
through their core tile information.
So Box plots Mail have lines extending vertically from those boxes which are usually called the whiskers
which indicate the variability outside the upper and lower court tiles.
And that's where the term box in a whisker plot's or box whisker diagram comes from.
And outliers may be plotted as individual points.
So let's go ahead and start a fire data layer.
So we'll go ahead and say geez you plot pass in our data which is DMF.
And then what we want to do is pass in our æsthetics information.
And so for this particular box plot what I'm going to go ahead and say is æsthetics and then pass in
are x and y information.
I'm first going to show you an example of a typical mistake when dealing with box plots and how we can
correct it.
So you may just say X is cylinder's and Y is mpg for a box plot.
We'll go ahead and sign that to people and then we'll go in and say Prince P.L. plus air geometry for
box plot as you may have guessed is just Jiya underscore box plot.
Let's go ahead and see what happens when we print this out.
We'll get a mistake and I'll explain it once we see it.
OK.
So if we just go in and zoom in on this box plot we can already see what the air looks like.
We've created one box plot for what should have been several categories.
And these are lined up just on six cylinder.
And you'll notice we get a warning message.
It says continuous X aesthetic and then it tells you that you forget to group them somehow or Factor
them etc..
So the reason this showing up is because box plots on the x axis need to have a categorical variable
meaning it shouldn't be some continuous value.
So we'll have to do here as we've done before in other instances is factor the cylinder column value
.
And then if we go ahead and run the source we get the box plot we were expecting which looks something
like this.
So what does this box plot actually represent.
You may be wondering Well box and whisker plots are sometimes called are uniform in their use of the
box.
So the bottom and the top of the box are always the first and third quart tiles and the band inside
the box.
Always that second quart tile which is essentially the median of that data the ends of the whiskers
However sometimes represent different possible alternative values sometimes represent standard deviation
or the minimum maximum of all the data.
In this case they represent 1.5 times the inter quarter mile range of the lower and upper core tiles
depending on what side of the box they're on.
If you're not familiar of these concepts of the box plot they're commonly used for stock information
as far as stock pricing.
But I recommend you go ahead and check out the Wikipedia page of box plots to find out more about box
plots how to read them and how to use them effectively.
In this case for this lecture we're just going to show you how to actually create box plots.
And then finally you can see all the way on Factor cylinder 8.
So the cars of eight cylinders.
Those two points those are outlier points.
So Box plots are nice.
The tect how many outliers you have in your data quickly and effectively through a visualization.
Since box plots already have so much statistical information inside of them just based off the way the
visualization is constructed.
I would recommend that you don't add too many more layers besides a theme or messing around the coordinates
of your box plot or otherwise you may oversaturate your visualization with too much information.
Or go ahead and show you some common use cases with other layers of box plots.
Sometimes you want to flip the coordinates of your box plots to have them be horizontal instead of vertical
and you can do that by just adding in another layer.
In this case is a coordinate layer and you'll say Kord underscore Phlip close Prince.
And this will essentially as you might expect flip the coordinates.
So if we see this plot we see that the coordinates have been flipped in other common use case for an
additional layer.
Arguments is in the geometry layer of geometer square box plots sometimes you want to color these box
plus box plots based off a factor of the actual x or y axis you're plotting on.
So in order to do that we can go ahead and do for a normal color we would say something like Phil blue
.
So if I run this the box plots will be filled blue but usually you probably want to actually fill based
off another column.
So remember if we're trying to make a fill shape or size or one of those geometry features based off
another column of our data or data frame we have to pass it into the ABS argument function inside of
the geometry layer.
So here we're going to say abs where fill is equal to factor and in this case we'll just go ahead and
say cylinder.
So we'll get one separate color for each cylinder.
Let me go out to make sure that currencies are balanced.
Looks like they are going to run this.
Make sure it works.
And there we have it.
So we have a separate color for each cylinder and a nice little legend that automatically pops up here
and again as always you can just go ahead and add a theme layer if you want it to.
So for instance I could say theme and we have some themes to choose from here.
We'll go on as you say dark.
It's going to run that and I have a dark background and you can go to mess around and play with these
themes.
And later on I'll have a lecture on how to actually download more things as far as box plots though
.
That's really all there is to it.
The lecture assumes you already know what box plots are and how to use them.
Vido I'd definitely recommend checking out the Wikipedia page for box plots to get some more background
information how to read them and how to accurately use them.
All right that's it for this lecture.
Hope you enjoyed it.
Thanks.
And I'll see the next one.